1.   What is Kubernetes? Write in your own words and why do we call it k8s?
=>  Kubernetes is a open source tool which manageing containerized applications and services. It is use for automate applications deployment, scaleing, and management.
=>  It's called k8s because "8" stands for the number of letters between "K" and "s" in the word "Kubernetes"

2.  What are the benefits of using k8s?
=>  ⭐ It's open source
    ⭐ It's automate application deployment and scalability
    ⭐ Deploying workloads in multiple environment.
    ⭐ Increse work efficiency for microservice architecture.
    ⭐  Container orchestration savings

3.  Explain the architecture of Kubernetes
=> In kubernetes architecture there is a cluster, where we get master-node and worker-node. 

   CLUSTER:- A group of server work together as a single system.

   Maste node/control plane componemts:

   API SERVER:- Api server provides the interface to interact with the cluster. Api server validate requestes and process tihe request to the backend component
   ETCD:- It is the database of kubernetes. It store the information about cluster like part of cluster nodes, running pods and more.
   SCHEDULAR:- The mastermind of your containers, when you want to run a container and ask for it, schedular is decide on which node the container is running. 
               And it also consider the resource availability.
   CONTROLLER MANAGER:- Who always monitor the cluster to match between cluster state and our desire state.

   Worker node components:

   KUBELET:- Ensuring that the every containers on node are healthy and working properly. It is a manager of node.
   SERVER PROXY:- It allows to connect between pod and external client and external client to pod.

 4.  What is Control Plane?
 =>  Master node known as control plane, it is the braib of a kubernetes cluster, its coordinateing with worker nodes and manageing the state where your application run.

 5.  Write the difference between kubectl and kubelets.
 =>  kubectl is the cli tool that devops engineers use for interacting with kubernetes cluster and kubelet is kubernetes mechanism for creating and observing 
     containers in a worker node.

 6.  Explain the role of the API server?
 => In kubernetes api server is the central component, RESTful interface that manages all communication between users, external tools, and the cluster's internal components, 
    acting as the control point for managing and interacting with the cluster's resources. 

















